readme.md, before:

# @fizker/serve-prepare

Tool for preparing a site for being statically hosted by [@fizker/serve][1].

Like [@fizker/serve][1], this is meant to be used in conjunction with [Docker](https://www.docker.com), and feature decisions are meant to utilize the cache mechanisms that Docker provides.


## How to use

The optimal way to use it is to make use of [multi-stage builds](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/multistage-build/). The build needs at least three stages:

1. Build stage. This is where the project does its own stuff, like webpack, content preparation and minification.
2. Preparation stage. This is where @fizker/serve-prepare runs.
3. Serve stage. This is the final stage that is sent to the server farm. It contains only [@fizker/serve][1] and the static files.

To start the build, run `docker build -t <your docker user>/<your project name> .`.

To start the server, see the documentation for [@fizker/serve][1] for details.

### Optimizing for development

Per default, all files are also compressed. This is good for production, but takes longer and thus makes the turn-around time worse during development. For this reason, compression can be disabled.

There are two ways to do this:

1. Add `--skip-compression` to `npx serve-prepare build` command
2. Set `SERVE_SKIP_COMPRESSION=true` env variable before running `npx serve-prepare build` command.

The [sample Dockerfile](#sample-dockerfile) sets up the env variable by using a Docker build-arg. Then to skip compression, run Docker with the `--build-arg skip_compression=true` flag like so: `docker build --build-arg skip_compression=true -t <your docker user>/<your project name> .`.


### Sample .dockerignore file

See [the sample .dockerignore](./sample-dockerignore) file for a full example.

Running `npx flow serve-prepare create-dockerfile` will create a sample .dockerignore and Dockerfile in the current directory.

The dockerignore should include everything that is not necessary for building, since that makes the docker build faster and utilizes the docker cache better.

Common entries includes:

- .git - There is a lot of data here, and stuff like branches and tags should not affect the docker build.
- node_modules - Modules might need to be compiled for the platform, so it is better to include the package.json and package-lock.json and do `npm install` than to copy the local node_modules. The docker caching will ensure that `npm install` is not rerun until either package*.json file changes.
- tests - The docker image is for deployment. Tests are not needed.
- build artifacts - The docker image will regenerate the build artifacts anyway.


### Sample Dockerfile

See [the sample Dockerfile](./sample-Dockerfile) file for a full example.

Running `npx flow serve-prepare create-dockerfile` will create a sample .dockerignore and Dockerfile in the current directory.

The sample file includes comments explaining the parts. Some parts might be different depending on the specific project. These are marked with `###`.

The following is of particular note:

- There is an expectation that the raw files are created by running `npx webpack`. This should be changed if necessary.
- There is an expectation that the raw files are placed in a folder called `/static`. This should be changed as necessary.
- If private NPM repositories are in play, add authentication to an `.npmrc` file and copy that in before running `npm install`.


### sample serve-setup-request.json

See [the sample serve-setup-request](./sample-serve-setup-request.json) file for a full example.

Running `npx flow serve-prepare create-setup-request` will create a sample setup-request file in the current directory.

This file contains any settings that needs to be considered for serving the content later. It contains the following segments:

- `catchAllFile` - The file that will be served if a client requests a path that does not match an existing file. The file must exist among the files to host. This can be left as `null`, in which case a standard `404` message is returned for unknown files. See the next segment for how to format this object.
- `files` - A list of overrides for files. If any of these refer to a non-existing file, it is simply ignored. See the next segment for how to format this object.
- `aliases` - A list of aliases to resolve. This allows the same physical file to be served for multiple paths. An `Alias` object must conform to the following JSON structure:
  `{ "from": "/path/to/alias", "to": "/path/to/file/or/alias" }`.
- `globalHeaders` - A string-string object of headers to add to all outgoing requests, unless overridden by the specific path.

The `File` object used by the `files` or `catchAllFile` segments must adhere to the following JSON structure:

```
{
	"path": "/path/to/file",
	"mime": "plain/text",
	"statusCode": 200,
	"headers": {
		"header": "value"
	}
}
```

- `path` - This is the only required property. It must start with `/`. It should not be URI encoded.
- `mime` - The mime-type to return for this file. If omitted, an attempt will be made to auto-detect this from the extension of the file. If that fails, the `docker build` command will fail.
- `statusCode` - The HTTP status code to return for the file. If omitted, it will default to `200`. This is mostly useful for custom 404 errors.
- `headers` - A string-string object of headers to add for the file. Entries here will override any matching values from the `globalHeaders`. This allows easily setting default headers and override on individual files, like cache headers for everything but the `index.html` file.

[1]: https://github.com/fizker/serve

Commit message:

Added HTTPS support to the Dockerfile

readme.md, after:

# @fizker/serve-prepare

Tool for preparing a site for being statically hosted by [@fizker/serve][1].

Like [@fizker/serve][1], this is meant to be used in conjunction with [Docker](https://www.docker.com), and feature decisions are meant to utilize the cache mechanisms that Docker provides.


## How to use

The optimal way to use it is to make use of [multi-stage builds](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/multistage-build/). The build needs at least three stages:

1. Build stage. This is where the project does its own stuff, like webpack, content preparation and minification.
2. Preparation stage. This is where @fizker/serve-prepare runs.
3. Serve stage. This is the final stage that is sent to the server farm. It contains only [@fizker/serve][1] and the static files.

To start the build, run `docker build -t <your docker user>/<your project name> .`.

To start the server, see the documentation for [@fizker/serve][1] for details.

### Optimizing for development

Per default, all files are also compressed. This is good for production, but takes longer and thus makes the turn-around time worse during development. For this reason, compression can be disabled.

There are two ways to do this:

1. Add `--skip-compression` to `npx serve-prepare build` command
2. Set `SERVE_SKIP_COMPRESSION=true` env variable before running `npx serve-prepare build` command.

The [sample Dockerfile](#sample-dockerfile) sets up the env variable by using a Docker build-arg. Then to skip compression, run Docker with the `--build-arg skip_compression=true` flag like so: `docker build --build-arg skip_compression=true -t <your docker user>/<your project name> .`.


### Sample .dockerignore file

See [the sample .dockerignore](./sample-dockerignore) file for a full example.

Running `npx flow serve-prepare create-dockerfile` will create a sample .dockerignore and Dockerfile in the current directory.

The dockerignore should include everything that is not necessary for building, since that makes the docker build faster and utilizes the docker cache better.

Common entries includes:

- .git - There is a lot of data here, and stuff like branches and tags should not affect the docker build.
- node_modules - Modules might need to be compiled for the platform, so it is better to include the package.json and package-lock.json and do `npm install` than to copy the local node_modules. The docker caching will ensure that `npm install` is not rerun until either package*.json file changes.
- tests - The docker image is for deployment. Tests are not needed.
- build artifacts - The docker image will regenerate the build artifacts anyway.


### Sample Dockerfile

See [the sample Dockerfile](./sample-Dockerfile) file for a full example.

Running `npx flow serve-prepare create-dockerfile` will create a sample .dockerignore and Dockerfile in the current directory.

The sample file includes comments explaining the parts. Some parts might be different depending on the specific project. These are marked with `###`.

The following are of particular note:

- There is an expectation that the raw files are created by running `npx webpack`. This should be changed if necessary.
- There is an expectation that the raw files are placed in a folder called `/static`. This should be changed as necessary.
- If private NPM repositories are in play, add authentication to an `.npmrc` file and copy that in before running `npm install`.
- HTTPS/HTTP2 support is done by copying certificates into the container in the last stage. There are some default filenames baked into the image. Please make sure that they correspond to real files, or remove/comment the HTTPS lines; [@fizker/serve][1] will operate in HTTP-only mode if any of the three HTTPS env vars are missing.


### sample serve-setup-request.json

See [the sample serve-setup-request](./sample-serve-setup-request.json) file for a full example.

Running `npx flow serve-prepare create-setup-request` will create a sample setup-request file in the current directory.

This file contains any settings that needs to be considered for serving the content later. It contains the following segments:

- `catchAllFile` - The file that will be served if a client requests a path that does not match an existing file. The file must exist among the files to host. This can be left as `null`, in which case a standard `404` message is returned for unknown files. See the next segment for how to format this object.
- `files` - A list of overrides for files. If any of these refer to a non-existing file, it is simply ignored. See the next segment for how to format this object.
- `aliases` - A list of aliases to resolve. This allows the same physical file to be served for multiple paths. An `Alias` object must conform to the following JSON structure:
  `{ "from": "/path/to/alias", "to": "/path/to/file/or/alias" }`.
- `globalHeaders` - A string-string object of headers to add to all outgoing requests, unless overridden by the specific path.

The `File` object used by the `files` or `catchAllFile` segments must adhere to the following JSON structure:

```
{
	"path": "/path/to/file",
	"mime": "plain/text",
	"statusCode": 200,
	"headers": {
		"header": "value"
	}
}
```

- `path` - This is the only required property. It must start with `/`. It should not be URI encoded.
- `mime` - The mime-type to return for this file. If omitted, an attempt will be made to auto-detect this from the extension of the file. If that fails, the `docker build` command will fail.
- `statusCode` - The HTTP status code to return for the file. If omitted, it will default to `200`. This is mostly useful for custom 404 errors.
- `headers` - A string-string object of headers to add for the file. Entries here will override any matching values from the `globalHeaders`. This allows easily setting default headers and override on individual files, like cache headers for everything but the `index.html` file.

[1]: https://github.com/fizker/serve
